So I'm gonna put this Doc here,
and it starts here where it says,
August 1 Status Update.
So go ahead and copy and paste all of
this, into your favorite text editor.
And again, docs.new if you wanna
just pop right into Google Docs,
don't mind if you use Word.
You could use markdown if you
really were bent on doing that, but
I'm gonna suggest that you use a text
editor, or sorry, a word processor.
And feel free to modify a little
bit if you would like to, but for
the most part, I'm trying to get you
to leave the content mostly intact and
use formatting to communicate your points.
So audience, senior leadership team for
a 5,000 person organization.
They know the broad stroke of your
projects, but they need an update
on the status of the project to be
able to close some sales deals.
You're redoing the checkout float to
incorporate feedback from some UX
research.
You're moving from a three-page checkout
page to a streamlined one-page checkout.
The project is going well, but
you are a bit behind schedule.
And that's kind of the point that you're
trying to make here, is like, hey,
things are great, no one panic, we have
to move the deadlines back a little bit.
I'm sure none of you have ever been in
situations that sounds at all like this.
So your point here as the readers is that,
we are behind schedule, we are not
much behind schedule, so getting
both of those points across, useful.
So let's slice and dice this.
So I'm just gonna go into Google Docs,
I'm gonna use my amazing copying and
paste skills.
That is also half of being a PM,
is copying and pasting.
That doesn't change between
engineering and PMing
docs.new, and paste this business in here.
So first thing I'm gonna do is
I'm gonna make this a title, and
I'm gonna make this a heading, and
I'm gonna make this a heading.
This is all pretty clumped together.
Again I'm optimizing very much for
readership here, so
I would typically make this
line spacing a bit higher.
What is the line spacing?
1.5's usually pretty good, I think that
makes it quite a bit more readable.
And then I would probably use
some bolding here to just make
sure that I'm communicating
the point here of what we are.
The UX team found some issues with
the cart moving the checkout button
right to left.
The redesigns are underway,
that feels pretty important
So that might be something
you might bold there,
you need to bold something
that lets them know.
Our project will miss,
I would probably bold that as well.
Yeah, you might even just unbold this,
and unbold that one down at the bottom.
I mean, there's kinda a couple ways to,
We're only two weeks behind,
yeah, maybe something like that.
I might reorganize this, so this is
obviously down towards the bottom, right?
So you might have to spend some time
rephrasing some of this just to say that
we're gonna miss our end of the quarter
project, and we're only two weeks behind.
Therefore some executive
reading this could say, okay,
two more weeks, I can do that, right?
Or, my God, two weeks,
we sold a bunch of people on this,
and now we're in a heap of trouble,
or something like that, yeah.
>> On that point of two weeks,
how then would I interpret the comments,
this one sentence earlier
that says it's four weeks,
we have four weeks worth of work?
We're emphasizing two weeks,
but if I'm reading that,
there's a claim that it has four weeks.
>> I think when I was writing this, which,
at this point, you're just into what was
Brian thinking while he was
drinking a beer and writing this?
Who knows, that Brian is dead to us now.
[LAUGH] But,
>> I guess I've run into these where
it's technically a four-week delay if we
had half the staff and things like that.
And it's important to communicate that
we're solving a longer problem in
a shorter time.
>> Totally, and it's an intent thing and
you probably could clean
up a language here..
I think my intent was
that there's we're still-
>> Two weeks away.
>> Yeah, instead of being four weeks away,
we're now six weeks away, right?
So there's a two-week delay to the project
that we already had anticipating four
more weeks or whatever that was.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah, but
however you chose to interpret that, as
long as you're emphasizing, we're a little
bit behind, but we are behind, that's
what I was looking to get out of you.
And I was trying to keep this from
overflowing into some big thing, right?
>> I took the first paragraph out and
I put the delay in the text
under that's of the changes, and
I took that first paragraph out, cuz that
first paragraph, it seems like an excuse.
We're maintaining good cadence,
I'm like, yeah, that's great, but
if there's a delay,
I think I'd want to know that first.
>> Yep,
I actually think that's even better.
>> I started down a similar path,
because, yeah,
the two paragraphs are sort of
two sides of the same coin, and
there's a lot of detail that depending
on largely, I think, the culture and
your relationship with this particular
senior management audience.
They may or
may not care about some of that detail.
So initially I started restructuring
it as a bulleted list,
expecting there to be multiple
factors in the delay.
But then as I read through more of
the content, found there was only one,
I thought, I could probably fit
this in about three sentences.
And the link to the research results,
if they care,
here's why we're doing
the work that we're doing.
And the bottom line is we're
gonna be missing our deadline
by two weeks, and period, send, [LAUGH]
>> Awesome, yeah,
I like that's, probably even better.
[COUGH] And it kind of events
in the context you invent for
yourself in this particular case.
But again, I like that you're trying to
form some imaginary audience to send this
to, right, cuz ultimately,
who's gonna be reading it?
What do you want them to get out of it,
and what do you want them to do about it?
Hey, we're two weeks behind,
please don't panic, right?
Cuz if you're just like, hey, we're
behind, they're gonna be like, my God,
I'm gonna panic, right?
Or maybe like I said, maybe it is,
my God, we're two weeks behind and
we're gonna miss our sales deadline or
whatever that is, right?
In this particular case, I just wanted
them to say, we're just a little
bit behind, we are missing end of quarter,
we are only two weeks behind.